MSC2967: API scopes (#2967)
matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals: proposals/2967-api-scopes.md

For example, if MSCXXX wants to introduce the `urn:matrix:client:foo` scope, it could use `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX.foo` during development.
If it needs to introduce multiple scopes, like `urn:matrix:client:foo` and `urn:matrix:client:bar`, it could use `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX:foo` and `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX:bar`.

### Allocated scopes

#### Full API read/write access

To support the existing semantic of granting full access to the Matrix C-S API the following scope is assigned:

| Scope | Purpose |
| - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client:api:*` | Grants full access to the Client-Server API |

In the future, a client would request more specific actions when required. e.g. something like `urn:matrix:client:api:read:*`

#### Device ID handling

Presently a device ID is typically generated by the homeserver and is associated with a specific series of access tokens.

This MSC proposes that the Matrix client is responsible for generating/allocating a device ID.
A client can create a new device ID by generating a random string and asking for its associated scope on login.

> A client can adopt and rehydrate an existing device ID by asking for its associated scope on login.

Reviewer: I think this needs some rationale for why we need/want to make this change?

I'm a bit hesitant moving the creation of IDs to clients, as it adds all sorts of edges cases that need to be addressed (clashes, incorrect grammar, etc) and means servers can't encode any information in the device ID (which we don't currently, but you could imagine would be useful).

Reviewer: Talked out of band last Friday morning, and there sounds like there is a bunch of historical context here (that has since become mostly outdated). Conclusion was for @sandhose to comment with the background and a bit or a rationale, and then we can make a final call on whether we want device IDs to be generated on the client or server.

Something that I didn't realise is that the spec currently allows clients to generate device IDs when they log in (mostly for bots and the like).

Author: I've explained why the change isn't bad in practice, and the historical context why it is like that in 082625d1

Reviewer 2: Is it possible for the homeserver to still generate a device ID if a `urn:matrix:client:device:<device ID>` scope is omitted? Or would that be odd behaviour in the OAuth 2.0 world?

Having the ability for the homeserver to generate the device ID does make very simple matrix clients even simpler (no need to randomly generate a string). But I don't feel strongly that this behaviour must remain; it's only a nice-to-have.

Similarly, I recognise that it's useful for the client to provide a device ID upon login (for device rehydration and other use cases). So I'm happy to see that's still supported.

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation @sandhose. SCT had a discussion and I believe the conclusion was broadly that this is fine for now, there's not much reason to change it so late in the day.

### Scope format

All scopes related to Matrix should start with `urn:matrix:` and use the `:` delimiter for further sub-division.

Scopes related to mapping of Client-Server API access levels should start with `urn:matrix:client:`.

For future MSCs that build on this namespace, unstable subdivisions should be used whilst in development.

For example, if MSCXXX wants to introduce the `urn:matrix:client:foo` scope, it could use `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX.foo` during development.
If it needs to introduce multiple scopes, like `urn:matrix:client:foo` and `urn:matrix:client:bar`, it could use `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX:foo` and `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX:bar`.

### Allocated scopes

#### Full API read/write access

To support the existing semantic of granting full access to the Matrix C-S API the following scope is assigned:

| Scope | Purpose |
| - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client:api:*` | Grants full access to the Client-Server API |

In the future, a client would request more specific actions when required. e.g. something like `urn:matrix:client:api:read:*`

> #### Device ID handling

Reviewer 3: Hm. I'm surprised that the specifics of the Device ID handling scope is included in this MSC, which otherwise is the framework for defining scopes in general.  Is this because this scope is compulsory for OIDC to work?  If so, we should say so.  If not, at the least, we should say that the scope is defined here as a concrete example of how scopes would work... or failing that, split it into a separate MSC.

If it /is/ primarily intended example of the framework, it just feels a bit weird to also be speccing specific behaviour at the same time - wouldn't it be better to give a fake example, and then clearly separate the Device ID management proposal somehow?

I have a feeling i've missed something here that explains why this isn't completely out of place :D

### Scope format

All scopes related to Matrix should start with `urn:matrix` and use the `:` delimiter for further sub-division.

| Prefix | Purpose |
| - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client` | For mapping of Client Server API access levels |

For future MSCs that build on this namespace unstable sub divisions should be used whilst in development:

e.g. `urn:matrix:com.example.mscXXXX.foo:something` or `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX.something`

### Allocated scopes

#### Legacy use cases

To support existing, pre-MSC2964 use cases the following scopes are assigned:

| Scope | Purpose | Implementation notes |
| - | - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client:api:guest` | Grants access as a guest to endpoints in the Client-Server API | The OP can issue a refresh token for grants with this scope. |
| `urn:matrix:client:api:*` | Grants full access to the Client-Server API | The OP can issue a refresh token for grants with this scope. |

These are referred to as "legacy" because it is envisioned that a client would request more specific actions in future when required. e.g. something like `urn:matrix:client:api:read:*`

#### Device ID handling

> Presently a device ID is typically generated by the homeserver and is associated with a specific access token. In OAuth 2.0 there is no such thing as a session and so a mapping cannot be handled using the same mechanism.

Reviewer 4: > In OAuth 2.0 there is no such thing as a session and so a mapping cannot be handled using the same mechanism.

In OIDC they define a `sid` (Session ID) claim within the `id_token` in the [Front-Channel Logout spec](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-frontchannel-1_0.html) (also referenced in other specs)

I would also like to mention that since clients are expected to use dynamic registration, `client_id`s resemble device IDs quite a bit

Author: > In OIDC they define a sid (Session ID) claim within the id_token in the [Front-Channel Logout spec](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-frontchannel-1_0.html) (also referenced in other specs)

Front-channel logout is a OP -> RP logout notification mechanism, which is not what we need.

We would need OIDC RP-initiated logout, but it's not practical to use in native apps, especially on iOS, as there would be an explicit prompt to logout there.

> I would also like to mention that since clients are expected to use dynamic registration, client_ids resemble device IDs quite a bit

This is somewhat true for now, although I aspire to dedupe client registrations through client metadata signature at some point, so I don't really like 'abusing' the client_id to do that

Reviewer 4: This was such an old post to which I got my answers by joining the matrix room already :D 

> Front-channel logout is a OP -> RP logout notification mechanism, which is not what we need.

The reason I mentioned that it's referenced in other specs is so that you could also refer to just that part of it, not having to implement the whole front-channel proposal. OIDC itself considers that section of the spec as where the session id concept is defined.

It's pointless now that ID tokens aren't a requirement anymore though.

> Presently a device ID is typically generated by the homeserver and is associated with a specific access token. In OAuth 2.0 there is no such thing as a session and so a mapping cannot be handled using the same mechanism.

Author: Technically yes, in practice no as MSC2918-style refresh tokens are almost not adopted by anyone. Is it worth clarifying here?

New MSCs should be created for proposing and discussing such new scopes.

### Insufficient privilege response

It is proposed that a [RFC6750](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6750) formatted `WWW-Authenticate` response header is used to provide feedback to the client with `error="insufficent_scope"`.

```http
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer error="insufficient_scope", scope="urn:matrix:api:something"
```

On receipt of such a response the client may then request a new authorization from the issuer as per [MSC2964](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2964) requesting the additional scope be granted.

The rest of the response would be as per the [standard error response](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.2/client-server-api/#standard-error-response) spec.

For example:

```http
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer error="insufficient_scope", scope="urn:matrix:api:something"
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "errcode": "M_FORBIDDEN",
  "error": "Insufficient scope"
}
```

## Potential issues

> The Device ID handling involves a change in where device IDs are generated. This is discussed in MSC2964. On the OIDC Provider side the device ID proposal requires the use of dynamic scopes. That is, the specific scope is a templated form rather than being static. This is not currently supported by some OpenID Providers (e.g. Okta and Auth0).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Device ID handling involves a change in where device IDs are generated. This is discussed in [MSC2964](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2964). On the OIDC Provider side the device ID proposal requires the use of dynamic scopes. That is, the specific scope is a templated form rather than being static. This is not currently supported by some OpenID Providers (e.g. Okta and Auth0).
```

> The addition of the `WWW-Authenticate` header could cause issue with some clients.

Reviewer 5: The header itself or attempting to parse it? We could also provider a matching `errcode` if that's useful?

### Allocated scopes

#### Full API read/write access

To support the existing semantic of granting full access to the Matrix C-S API the following scope is assigned:

| Scope | Purpose |
| - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client:api:*` | Grants full access to the Client-Server API |

In the future, a client would request more specific actions when required. e.g. something like `urn:matrix:client:api:read:*`

#### Device ID handling

Presently a device ID is typically generated by the homeserver and is associated with a specific series of access tokens.

This MSC proposes that the Matrix client is responsible for generating/allocating a device ID.
A client can create a new device ID by generating a random string and asking for its associated scope on login.
A client can adopt and rehydrate an existing device ID by asking for its associated scope on login.

The client can then add the requested device ID to the grant by including following token in the requested scope:
`urn:matrix:client:device:<device ID>`, where `<device ID>` is the requested device ID.

> There MUST be *at most* one `urn:matrix:client:device:` token in the requested scope.

Reviewer 5: What happens if there's more than one? The login is rejected with what error?

Is this "at most" or "exactly"? (Probably the same as @anoadragon453 's comment at https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/2967#discussion_r2012560048)

Author: The current implementation allow device-less tokens, which may not be the right thing. Let's simplify this for now, making it 'exactly one', and maybe later we introduce what not having a device ID means

Author: Change that in 858b7be9

On the error, that would be a [standard `invalid_scope` error](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749.html#section-4.1.2.1). Do we really need to specify that?

When generating a new device ID, the client SHOULD generate a random string with enough entropy.
It SHOULD only use characters from the unreserved character list defined by [RFC3986]:

> unreserved = a-z / A-Z / 0-9 / "-" / "." / "_" / "~"

> Using this alphabet, a 10 character string is enough to stand a sufficient chance of being unique.

Reviewer 5: These are still per user, correct? Can two users have the same devices ID?

Author: Yes they are, that semantic hasn't changed

# MSC2967: API scope restriction

When a user logs in with a Matrix client, it gives this client full access to their Matrix account.

This introduces scopes to allow restricting client access to only part of the Matrix client API.

## Proposal

The [MSC2964](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2964) introduces the usage of OAuth 2.0 to authenticate against a Matrix server.
OAuth 2.0 grants have scopes associated to them and encourage to ask for user consent when a client asks for a new scope that was not granted before.

This MSC does not attempt to define all the scopes necessary to cover the whole API, but lays out a base for that.

### Format

URN are widely used formats for OAuth 2.0 scopes.
All scopes related to Matrix must therefore start with `urn:matrix:`.

Calls to the Matrix client API, excluding calls that need UIA, must be restricted by scopes prefixed by `urn:matrix:api:`.
Calls to endpoints that currently need User-Interactive Authentication (UIA) must be restricted by scopes prefixed by `urn:matrix:sudo:`.

Protected resource can have both `read` and `write` operations.

> `write` access to a resource implies `read` access to it.

Reviewer 6: It might be nice to have the concept of either:
 - `append` (write but not delete), where `write` allows deletions.
 - `delete`, where `write` alone does not allow deletions.

I trust some logins to send messages but I don't want them to be able to edit/delete things I've already sent.

Author: It's hard to know what suffixes would actually make sense before the full scopes get defined. Maybe this MSC should be less precise about the scope suffixes and leave them for when exact scopes get implemented?

After this MSC, I only expect `urn:matrix:api:*`, `urn:matrix:sudo:*` and `urn:matrix:device:[ID]` to work, which are enough to mimic current behaviors.

Reviewer 7: @kegsay I've added these as notes to the proposal and attempted to clarify about what would be done now versus at some point in future.

Access to those operations are specified as the scope suffix, e.g. `urn:matrix:api:[resource]:read`.

### Globs

Scopes used by the Matrix client API support wildcard globs.
`urn:matrix:api:*` gives full access to the API (excluding UIA).
`urn:matrix:api:*:read` gives read-only access to the API.

> Access to the `urn:matrix:sudo:*` can be time-restricted and require user re-authentication for sensitive operations.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Access to the `urn:matrix:limited:*` can be time-restricted and require user re-authentication for sensitive operations.
```

Reviewer 7: In the latest version of the proposal we explicitly call it `uia` so that the purpose is clear in relation to the C-S API.

Reviewer 7: Furthermore, the latest version of the proposal now excludes UIA entirely.

## Proposal

[MSC2964](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2964) introduces the usage of the OAuth 2.0 authorization code grant to authenticate against a Matrix homeserver.

A OAuth 2.0 grant has a scope associated to it which provides a framework for obtaining user consent.

The framework encourages the practise of obtaining additional use consent when a client asks for a new scope that was not granted previously.

This MSC does not attempt to define all the scopes necessary to cover all Matrix APIs and use cases, but proposes the structure of a namespace and a few scopes to cover existing use cases.

### Scope format

All scopes related to Matrix should start with `urn:matrix` and use the `:` delimiter for further sub-division.

| Prefix | Purpose |
| - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client` | For mapping of Client Server API access levels |

For future MSCs that build on this namespace, unstable subdivisions should be used whilst in development.

For example, if MSCXXX wants to introduce the `urn:matrix:client:foo` scope, it could use `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX.foo` during development.

> If it needs to introduce multiple scope, like `urn:matrix:client:foo` and `urn:matrix:client:bar`, it could use `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX:foo` and `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX:bar`.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
If it needs to introduce multiple scopes, like `urn:matrix:client:foo` and `urn:matrix:client:bar`, it could use `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX:foo` and `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX:bar`.
```

# MSC2967: API scopes

This proposal is part of the broader [MSC3861: Next-generation auth for Matrix, based on OAuth 2.0/OIDC](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/3861).

When a user signs in with a Matrix client, it currently gives the client full access to their Matrix account.

This proposal introduces access scopes to allow restricting client access to only part(s) of the Matrix client API.

## Proposal

[MSC2964](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2964) introduces the usage of the OAuth 2.0 authorization code grant to authenticate against a Matrix homeserver.

> OAuth 2.0 grants have scopes associated to them and provides a framework for obtaining user consent.

Author: Reworded in 7bad5053, wdyt?

> OAuth 2.0 grants have scopes associated to them and provides a framework for obtaining user consent.

Reviewer 9: Yep, that seems much clearer!

The framework encourages the practise of obtaining additional use consent when a client asks for a new scope that was not granted previously.

This MSC does not attempt to define all the scopes necessary to cover all Matrix APIs and use cases, but proposes the structure of a namespace and a few scopes to cover existing use cases.

### Scope format

> All scopes related to Matrix should start with `urn:matrix` and use the `:` delimiter for further sub-division.
> 
> | Prefix | Purpose |
> | - | - |
> | `urn:matrix:client` | For mapping of Client Server API access levels |

Reviewer 10: Rather than this table with one row, I think it would be clearer to explain what's going on in words.

```suggestion
All scopes related to Matrix should start with `urn:matrix` and use the `:` delimiter for further sub-division.
Scopes related to mapping of Client-Server API access levels should start with `urn:matrix:client`.
```

Author: did that in e7531fa4

> For future MSCs that build on this namespace unstable sub divisions should be used whilst in development:

Reviewer 10: nit 
```suggestion
For future MSCs that build on this namespace unstable subdivisions should be used whilst in development:
```

> e.g. `urn:matrix:com.example.mscXXXX.foo:something` or `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX.something`

Reviewer 10: I'm also unclear about what would happen once the msc is stable: would it become `urn:matrix:client:something`?

> e.g. `urn:matrix:com.example.mscXXXX.foo:something` or `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX.something`

Author: I've reworded in 79845f53

> e.g. `urn:matrix:com.example.mscXXXX.foo:something` or `urn:matrix:client:com.example.mscXXXX.something`

Reviewer 9: Thanks, added minor typo fix.

### Allocated scopes

#### Full API read/write access

To support the existing semantic of granting full access to the Matrix C-S API the following scope is assigned:

| Scope | Purpose | Implementation notes |
| - | - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client:api:*` | Grants full access to the Client-Server API | The homeserver can issue a refresh token for grants with this scope. |

In the future, a client would request more specific actions when required. e.g. something like `urn:matrix:client:api:read:*`

#### Device ID handling

Presently a device ID is typically generated by the homeserver and is associated with a specific access token. In OAuth 2.0 there is no such thing as a session and so a mapping cannot be handled using the same mechanism.

MSC2964 proposes that the Matrix client is responsible for generating/allocating a device ID. A client can adopt and rehydrate an existing client by asking for its scope on login.

> This also has a nice side-effect: if the device asked was never used by the client making the request, the authorization server will ask for explicit consent from the user.

Reviewer 10: I don't really follow this, tbh. Why does the auth server ask for consent if a device was *not* used? What is asking for consent for? When does this happen?

do you mean "not previously used", rather than "never used"?

> The client can then bind the device ID to the grant by requesting a scope comprising of a [RFC3986](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986) URN in the format:

Reviewer 10: > The client can then bind the device ID to the grant

What does this actually mean in practice? For example, does it mean that when I call `/sync` using an access token corresponding to this grant, then I will receive to-device messages sent to the given device ID? If so, can you say so explicitly?

Author: I'm unclear whether this MSC should define what being associated to a particular device means? This is binding (or creating) a 'Matrix device' as defined [by the spec](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.13/#devices); I don't think the impact it has on the rest of the C-S API should be defined in this MSC?

Reviewer 10: the problem is that the words "bind" and "grant" do not currently appear in the matrix spec (at least in this context), so yes, I think we do need to define this better. My question above about to-device messages is an important one, which I'm still not clear on the answer to.

If my *assumptions* are correct, then we could fix this by adding something along the lines of:

> Once the device ID is bound to the grant in this way, any access tokens corresponding to the grant are also associated with the given device ID. This means, for example, that `/sync` calls made with an access token corresponding to the grant will return to-device messages sent to the given device ID.

Author: > Once the device ID is bound to the grant

This makes it sound like 'binding' is dynamic though?

I've reworded the whole section, removing the unnecessary 1-row table as well in abbae1eb, wdyt?

| Scope | Purpose | Implementation notes |
| - | - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client:device:<device ID>` | bind the given device ID to the grant/access token | The homeserver must only grant exactly one device scope for a token. |

> Note that currently the Matrix specification doesn't specify a format for the device ID itself. If the device ID were constrained as per [MSC1597](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/1597) then it could be directly represented within a URN without further encoding.

Reviewer 9: So does this specify an encoding to be used or none?

Author: I did define an explicit suggested alphabet and imposed a restricted alphabet (which is a superset of what MSC1597 suggests; see 58f2398

### Future scopes

Exact scopes for the whole API are intentionally not specified in this MSC.

It is envisioned that the namespace could be further partitioned to support use cases such as read only, write only, limited to one or more rooms etc.

Some thoughts/ideas for possible scopes are:

- `urn:matrix:client:api:<permission>` or `urn:matrix:client:api:<permission>:*` - grant limited access to the client API in all rooms. Permissions could be read, write, delete, append.
- `urn:matrix:client:api:read:<resource>` - read-only access to the client API for just the named resource. e.g. `urn:matrix:client:api:read:#matrix-auth`

New MSCs should be created for proposing and discussing such new scopes.

## Potential issues

> The Device ID handling involves a change in where device IDs are generated. This is discussed in [MSC2964](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2964). On the OIDC Provider side the device ID proposal requires the use of dynamic scopes. That is, the specific scope is a templated form rather than being static.

Reviewer 10: > This is discussed in [MSC2964](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2964).

Is it? where?

## Alternatives

### Scopes

> Scope format could also have an URL format, e.g. `https://matrix.org/api/*/read`.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
Scopes could also have an URL format, e.g. `https://matrix.org/api/*/read`.
```
.. just because I'm assuming multiple uses of 'scope' wasn't intentional

Author: done in 58f2398

### Allocated scopes

#### Full API read/write access

To support the existing semantic of granting full access to the Matrix C-S API the following scope is assigned:

| Scope | Purpose |
| - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client:api:*` | Grants full access to the Client-Server API |

In the future, a client would request more specific actions when required. e.g. something like `urn:matrix:client:api:read:*`

#### Device ID handling

Presently a device ID is typically generated by the homeserver and is associated with a specific series of access tokens.

This MSC proposes that the Matrix client is responsible for generating/allocating a device ID.
A client can create a new device ID by generating a random string and asking for its associated scope on login.
A client can adopt and rehydrate an existing client by asking for its scope on login.

The client can then bind the device ID to the grant by requesting a scope comprising of a [RFC3986] URN in the format:

| Scope | Purpose | Implementation notes |
| - | - | - |
| `urn:matrix:client:device:<device ID>` | bind the given device ID to the grant/access token | The homeserver must only grant exactly one device scope for a token. |

> The device ID scope MUST be present *at most* once in the scope.

Reviewer 10: this seems circular

```suggestion
The device ID scope MUST be present *at most* once in the list of requested scopes.
```

maybe?

Author: I'm always on the fence with this… The thing is, the RFC defines "scope" singular as basically the list of access a token has

>    The authorization and token endpoints allow the client to specify the
   scope of the access request using the "scope" request parameter.  In
   turn, the authorization server uses the "scope" response parameter to
   inform the client of the scope of the access token issued.
>
>   The value of the scope parameter is expressed as a list of space-
   delimited, case-sensitive strings.  The strings are defined by the
   authorization server.  If the value contains multiple space-delimited
   strings, their order does not matter, and each string adds an
   additional access range to the requested scope.

Looking at [other specs like OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ScopeClaims), looks like a single item in the scope can be called a `scope value`?

When generating a new device ID, the client SHOULD generate a random string with enough entropy.
It SHOULD only use characters from the unreserved character list defined by [RFC3986]:

> unreserved = a-z / A-Z / 0-9 / "-" / "." / "_" / "~"

> Using this alphabet, a 10 character string is enough to be reasonably unique.

Reviewer 10: "reasonably unique" doesn't make much sense

```suggestion
Using this alphabet, a 10 character string is enough to stand a sufficient chance of being unique.
```

Reviewer 3: (i'm failing to see why 'reasonably unique' is wrong here, but whatever)

The homeserver MAY reject a request for a device ID that is not long enough or contains characters outside the unreserved list.

> In any case it MUST only used characters allowed by the OAuth 2.0 scope definition in [RFC6749] section 3.3.
> It is defined as the following ASCII ranges: `%x21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E`
> Which is equivalent to:

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
In any case it MUST only used characters allowed by the OAuth 2.0 scope definition in [RFC6749] section 3.3,
which is defined as the following ASCII ranges: `%x21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E`, i.e:
```

## Potential issues

The Device ID handling involves a change in where device IDs are generated.
Because the device ID is now generated by the client, it is possible to have a device ID collision.

Requiring enough entropy on the device ID ensures that the device ID is unique.
With a 66 character alphabet and a 10 character device ID, the probability of a collision between 100 million devices is around 0.3%:

$$
N = 66^{10} \\
K = 10^{8} \\

> P \approx 1 - e^{\frac{K^2}{2N}} \\

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
P \approx 1 - e^{-\frac{K^2}{2N}} \\
```

P \approx 0.00318

> $$

Reviewer 10: needs more linebreaks or something. In any case, it's all rendering on one line.

Author: I did that in 13042035 but then forgot to push 😅
